okay good morning everyone welcome back
let's uh push on can everybody read that
all right it's like an like an ey test
this morning upper case b lower case b
all
good okay all right so we are going to
uh finish up this morning the first uh
uh module of this course our
introduction last time we did a uh a
whirlwind tour of the history of AI
obviously I left a lot of stuff out just
as you just to refresh your memory at
the end of lecture 2 last time you saw
the sort of overview of the all the
different fields that are attempting to
create intelligent machines and you can
relatively easily cleave all of these
different subdisciplines into two
different camps those working on AI that
believe we will eventually create
intelligent machines and that we don't
need a body to get there the other Camp
believe believes that the the root to
creating intelligent machines is going
to require a body somehow embodied AI
embodied intelligence robotics what the
heck does this term embodiment mean
we're going to spend this morning
talking about exactly that any questions
about the assignments quizzes
installation issues pyrro Sim we're all
good okay so here we go as you'll
remember from our discussion about
Turing in the Chinese room last time
very very difficult to Define exactly
what we mean by intelligence so what
we're going to do today to highlight
this idea of embodiment or the embodied
approach to creating intelligent
machines is we're going to look at a
whole bunch of building blocks of
intelligence if we can't Define what
intelligence is maybe we can identify a
whole bunch of the necessary components
that go into an intelligent machine
including us what are the things that
you would expect to see in an
intelligent machine and then how might
we go about uh
instantiating those in those building
blocks of intelligence in a non-embodied
man Manner and then the same intelligent
behavior in an embodied ma manner so
we're going to basically illustrate this
concept of embodiment by looking at
non-embodied approaches to creating
intelligent components and embodied
approaches yeah okay so let's go uh what
is an important thing for humans animals
plants robots drones xenobots if we if
we want to consider them intelligent one
of the things that you would expect to
see is that they're able to recognize
patterns in the world and respond to
them appropriately so let's start with a
very important building block of
intelligence that most people would
probably argue as important pattern
recognition this is one of the early
problems that computer scientists tried
to tackle um going all the way back to
the 1950s and the Dartmouth uh
conference how do we create machines
that see patterns out there uh in the
world okay we can sort of start to
concretize or make this more concrete by
asking the following question how do you
recognize objects in a scene so if we're
to stick a camera onto a robot or feed
photograph s into a computer how might
it start to identify there's a cat in
that image there's a this in that image
there's this particular person in this
image please convince me I'm not that
old who is this particular
person you still all know okay good all
right all right okay so um for you
hopefully the moment I put up this slide
I saw a few of you smile you not only
immediately identified that there was a
human being
in this picture but you identified a
pretty famous and familiar human being
you did it so fast you probably didn't
even realize you were doing it it feels
effortless right I don't see any of you
sweating it wasn't that difficult
hopefully for most of you right so back
in the 50s it seemed like an easy thing
to do this is going to be no problem
we'll either do it during the summer of
1956 or maybe into the fall of 1956
shouldn't take us that long to write a
computer program that if we give it an
image it can recognize whatever is in
that image or even a simpler task just
separate the object of Interest the main
thing that's in the image from
everything else this is known in
computer vision as the image
segmentation problem find the Marilyn
Monroe in the picture or the automobile
or the cat this is now a solved problem
but it's only been solved relatively
recently in retrospect it turned out to
be super super hard it was one of the
most difficult problems in computer
science and here you can see a computer
doing exactly that how does a computer
or an AI program do this it requires
millions and millions and millions and
millions of photographs that don't
include a cute kitty cat and millions
and millions and millions of images of
images that do contain a cute kitty cat
and gradually over time a deep neural
network like we talked about last time
can gradually start to recognize the
difference between these two types of
images those with and without the object
of Interest requires huge huge amounts
of data and computation as hopefully
most of us know that's the non-embodied
approach to solving this problem can we
do this in a embodied way so we're going
to we're going to talk about a a cog
here this is cog the
robot Cog is going to try and solve
exactly the same problem it's going to
solve first of all the image
segmentation problem as you can see Cog
has a couple of cameras here uh and it's
able to Cog is able to see its world can
it identify objects from background so
we're going to we're going to see how
solves the pattern recognition problem
uh uh the pattern recognition problem in
an embodied manner uh optional reading
for today you can go back and read the
original paper that reported these
results but I'm going to give you just
the summary of how this was actually
done the solution first of all in all
embodied approaches is that we're going
to deal with a machine that can push
against the world and observe how the
world pushes back sometimes
that push and observe the result is
going to be literal like in the case of
COG and as we move on in the course and
we look at more and more exotic machines
sometimes that pushing against the world
is a little more subtle or metaphorical
but we've got that feedback loop there
somehow action and sensing the reaction
or the repercussion of our
actions one of the reasons that
non-embodied uh AIS like chat GPT and
all the rest struggle with cause and
effect or causal reasoning the reason
they struggle with it is because they
can't cause effects or they can by
sending text to humans and seeing what
humans type back but it's sort of an
indirect Action Reaction one of the ad
the main advantage of having a body of
being embodied is I can push against my
world and immediately observe how the
world pushes back yeah okay all right
let's see exactly how uh Cog does this
so as you can see from this image Cog
has two cameras uh it's anthropomorphic
we heard that term last time also shaped
like a human being but missing some
parts um Cog only has one arm and one
hand the researchers in this case meta
and Fitzpatrick did something kind of it
seems kind of odd on the surface as Cog
was interacting with its world uh the
two cameras are receiving two live video
feeds they wrote some code uh that
filtered out from those video feeds a
lot of information first of all they
pulled all the color out of those two
video feeds and then they further
reduced every pixel in every frame of
those two video feeds to a binary value
so basically Cog is seeing in black and
white it's represented in the cartoon
here where a zero pixel is everything
the zero pixels are everything that's
grayed out here and a one is everything
that's not gray
out yeah the cartoonists here kind of
just drew in the detail so you could
sort of see you you would know what's in
CG's environment but the only thing Cog
is seeing at this moment in time is a
Big Blob of white or a Big Blob of zeros
and then this
blob of
ones so far so good okay seems like kind
of an odd thing to do they're kind of
they're hobbling Cog in a way they're
removing a lot of information that would
otherwise be available to Cog okay Cog
uh it can see very little it Cog also
knows very little you from your Vantage
Point can see that Cog has two eyes a
body an upper arm a lower arm a hand
there's some fruit in front of COG Cog
knows none of this the only thing Cog
really knows at the beginning is cog
knows that Cog can send a couple of
floating Point numbers three or four can
send them outwards it can generate three
or four floating Point numbers those
floating Point numbers are sent to cogs
shoulder elbow wrist and hand and those
numbers are received by the motors at
cogs shoulder uh elbow wrist and hand
and the motor notti uh the motor says
okay if I'm receiving a large number I'm
going to apply large torque we're going
to see this term over and over again
torque is rotational Force so a big
number means the motor a big number
means the motor is going to really start
to pull on the shoulder elbow or wrist a
small
number uh apply low torque and that
particular joint will start to rotate
slowly so far so good very very very
simple okay at the beginning of this
experiment Cog again knows very little
doesn't know what it's supposed to do it
just sends some random numbers out to
its Motors and its arm starts to move in
this particular example here um CG's arm
starts to move into its field of view
what does Cog see it Cog outputed these
three or four numbers what does it see
more or less
immediately like the outline of a
similar shape that it's looking it sees
an outline of something there's this big
black Lo blob that starts to come in
from its the left hand side of its field
of view everything was Zer and then it
sends three or four four numbers and
suddenly there's this big black blob
that appears in its field of view so Cog
has pushed against the world and the
world has pushed back at this instant in
time so far so good okay Cog is
recording all of this information so Cog
is going to start to learn using this
raw material of
Action Reaction we're not going to talk
about the learning algorithm in COG and
how actually learns we're focusing on
the embodied aspect of this experiment
how Cog is using its body to pull
information out of its
World okay so it sees this black blob
and remember the black blob are all the
ones and those ones are actually I'm
sorry I think I forgot this detail the
zeros in its field of view represent
pixels in which there has been no motion
during the last 10th of a second I'm
sorry I think I missed that detail so
there this computer code that's sitting
on top of the raw video feed coming back
from the cameras sets a pixel to zero if
there was no motion registered at that
pixel over the last tenth of a second
and it paints that pixel with the one if
there was a little bit of motion at that
pixel a tenth of a second ago yeah so at
the moment in my visual field most of my
visual field is quiet there's relatively
little motion I can see a few of your
heads bobbing a little bit there's a
little bit of motion the moment I do
this there is huge optic
flow a vast majority of the Machinery
inside my eye is registering
motion yeah okay so this is these are
pixels that are registering recent optic
flow and these are pixels that are
registering lack of recent optic flow
okay sorry back to the story so far Cog
has just sent some motor commands and
this big black blob appears in its left
field of view and then it stops sending
those three or four numbers what happens
at the next instant in
time the hand disappears from The View
that you said the hand disappears from
The View you know that Cog doesn't know
that we're going to try and use language
from COG point of view from CG's point
of view the big black blob in the left
side of its field of view disappears
everything turns
white okay Cog sort of records that
information is going to start learning
using it in a moment Cog randomly sends
another three or four numbers what
happens
now all the pixels are zero it sends
some random numbers
again something else appears in
something else
appears it's only got one
arm the arm is here but motionless
because it's stopped sending commands to
the motors now it starts sending
commands to the motors again what what
what does cog
experience blob reapps where it was
before it disappeared The Blob reappears
in the same shape in the same position
well that's interesting so Cog stops
sends sending commands everything goes
white again sends some more commands the
same sized and shaped blob appears in
the same position maybe moves a bit and
then Winks out of existence the moment
it's it stops sending those three or
four numbers what can Cog start to learn
using that little information it's
collected so
far that things remain in the same
position what like like I I object
permanence object permanence okay great
another important thing that early
humans take a lot of time to learn
there's a theory in child psychology why
why do children around the world love
peekaboo it's the most famous popular
game in the history of the human species
because peekaboo teaches object
permanence something that is uded
something important like mommy's face
will rapidly reappear in more or less
the same place in a short period of time
so the nickname for Cog became baby bot
for exactly these reasons Cog in the
first few minutes of operation starts to
make some stupendous discoveries like
object permanence there's this object
whatever this thing is it appears
Whenever I send numbers out into the
world and it disappears whenever I stop
sending numbers out into the world what
was the you might have said this earlier
um what was the benefit of having it
only like recognize moving objects
versus like is it just is that just like
an easier computer vision problem they
yeah so the question is why did they
remove most of the information from the
video feeds and only leave behind
whether or not there was motion there
they wanted to see what Cog can learn in
an embodied manner using just that
information a lot of what our our eyes
evolve to do is exactly that recognize
motion back in the day and arguably we
still are apex predators very important
to be able to recognize motion and lack
of motion where is their motion when was
their last motion and so on yeah how
much can you actually learn if that's
the only thing you can receive from the
outside world okay so Cog does some
learning it doesn't know it it doesn't
know anything about this blob it comes
up with some arbitrary term for this
this phenomenon not necessarily even
this object we're not really talking
about objects we're talking about
relationships between Cog and the world
when I send numbers The Blob appears
when I stop sending numbers The Blob
disappears that process Cog is going to
call
Self that seems to be I'll just pick an
arbitrary term self that's what self is
if you asked Cog what self is it would
say self self are is the collection of
blobs that appear when I act and disapp
appear when I don't act so far so good
okay so Cog bab bot continues uh moving
and stopping to move its arm and
suddenly through these random motions
something new
happens self this blob suddenly changes
shape it suddenly grows this big round
blob on the end of the self blob it's
hit the Apple what happens in the
instant of time after the next instant
of time after Cog stops sending commands
to the motors just after it's come into
contact with the
Apple little more y absolutely so cogs
mind is blown holy cow I've never seen
this before there is a new blob that
remains for a tenth of a second or a
half of a second after I stop sending
numbers to the world I've never seen
that before it keeps it doing its
experiments and its Hand by accident
comes back in contact with the Apple
again and suddenly the same thing
happens okay so Cog starts to realize
during its learning process that there
is stuff out there that's different from
self Cog thinks for a while and says I'm
going to call that the world there's
self or self and let's say other other
yeah this is another thing that young
humans and young uh mobile animals spend
a lot of time uh doing is distinguishing
between nonself and self I'm not having
good luck with pens this
morning okay how do you know where your
body uh ends and the world or the
nonself begins it's actually not an easy
thing to do luck Cog here kind of
stumbled into interactions that caused
that to happen I feel like we use a lot
of sensation for that like I I guess
watching myself H the table doesn't
actually like when you're numb you kind
and you kind of like don't realize that
you're touching like your own face or
something versus like kind of the
feeling of you at your fingertips
absolutely so if you ever had the dead
arm experience wake up in the middle of
the night and you've been sleeping on
your arm and all the nerves have gone
dead in your arm and you're you're half
asleep it's a little scary for a moment
you're not quite sure is this thing me
or is this something else right it again
feels effortless to us as adults when
we're fully awake but that illusion can
actually disappear sometimes it's not as
obvious as it seems as you pointed out
we have tons of more sensory apparati at
our disposal than Cog does it's very
limited but even in this very simplified
experiment Cog can start to embark on
this discovery process and it's
happening because of interactions with
the world it's not saying the world is
everything that's not shaped like this
it's not a geometric description it's a
description between these
processes send numbers stop sending
numbers and this is what happens and
this process send numbers don't send
numbers and something different happens
yeah so Cog is is starting to build up
an understanding of self and everything
else based on differences in actions and
reactions yeah okay so uh we'll just
call it maybe nonself so as Cog
continues to bump into the Apple
accidentally Cog can actually start to
learn more things about nonself you
actually kind of mentioned it what else
can Cog start start to
learn about this mysterious thing called
nonself has different shapes or form it
has different shapes so this thing that
has this particular blob shape remains
permanent for half a second or a second
after I collide with it but if I collide
with this thing down here this long
thing I bump into it it also appears for
a brief period after I stop moving but
it Winks out of uh existence much faster
because the banana doesn't roll right so
Cog starts to realize that nonself is
not some big undifferentiated Mass there
are different kinds of things out there
in nonself there are things that have
this kind of blob shape that have this
particular property they stay permanent
for a second more and things of this
shape which remain permanent after
ceasing action for a shorter period of
time so Cog thinks to itself and says
all right I'm going to invent A New
Concept called
shape and there are different kinds of
shapes I'll call things like this round
and things like this
non-round so now we're getting into
geometric words round non-round but from
CG's perspective the definition of a
round object is not this
it's for another second it's description
if Cog were able to tell you what what
the definition of is for round Cog would
tell you in the language of Dynamics I
do this then this happens and so on so
far so good okay we could spend the rest
of today talking about Cog we'll spend
just two more minutes what else can Cog
start to learn about if it C only has
this collection of fruit in front of it
and it's kind of randomly moving its arm
around and watching what happens what
else can Cog start to learn about
nonself one
objects ah discover that there are
multiple different kinds ofself they can
attct absolutely right it's not all
about me right so CG's ego is going to
start to take a blow that self is not
the only thing that can trigger that can
trigger action in the world self can
cause the Apple to start rolling but the
Apple might roll and bump into these
other small things that jiggle for a
little bit and then wink out of
existence right so there's cause and
effect out there in the world that maybe
I started the ball rolling literally but
it's not all about me there are other
things that can happen great point what
else can Cog start to learn about
nonself uh different objects have
different kind of motion Absol
something absolutely right so the the
banana when pushed also displaces but
the shape doesn't change so let's call
that slide Cog says let's call that
sliding the ball keeps uh sort of
changes its shape as it's moving we'll
call that rolling so Cog starts to
invent action word starts to invent uh
verbs what else can Cog start to learn
can COG
okay uh I think it can but for this
experiment that's not so important but
you're right if it turn if Cog turns its
head what happens it sees everything
everything everything all the pixels
turn to White right so it could start to
learn about other things about the world
yep could it be like um Nuance between
how much like how much force it applies
like basic the torque absolutely right
so uh baby bot acts like babies and
starts smashing everything in sight and
learns that some things are squishable
and some things
aren't Cog starts to learn that once you
squish something it doesn't most usually
doesn't become UNS squished there are
non-reversible processes in the world
there's a gazillion things that Cog can
start to learn with just two eyes one
arm one hand and a couple of pieces of
fruit in front of it and the ability to
just see motion or lack of motion tons
of things Cog can start to learn as a
side effect of learning all these things
Cog has also solved the image
segmentation problem Cog can start to
learn how to see forground from
background and Cog doesn't need to
expend a lot of effort to do it in deep
learning there's a huge amount of
computation that goes into recognizing
the outline of Marilyn Monroe and we're
not going to go into the details of how
that happens for Cog it's
easy there it is right I my uh the optic
flow circuits in my eye pick that up
effortlessly I know exactly the shape of
that chair I just pushed it I know how
much it weighs I learned a heck of a lot
about the chair with very very little
computation and that only works because
you innately have a circuit in your
brain that does that kind of motion
detection absolutely it was given the
capability it needed for that to be
absolutely it was all built in from the
start right so you're right there is
still a lot of effort that goes into
this and me doing this but it was effort
done by my our ancestors and their
ancestors and their ancestors it's all
built in you're right there's no free
lunch but in terms of COG itself herself
it's himself whatever it is much less
effort for the individual
yeah but correct me if I'm
wrong wouldn't be able to recognize the
same set of fruits if it was just a
picture yeah so that's a really good
question um this work has mostly not yet
been done so I mentioned in this field
there's a lot of open questions you
could it's not too difficult to make a
robot that starts to get useful learning
information from physically interacting
with the world none of you are actually
pushing against the fruit you're just
looking at a picture and listening to me
how does all of that embodied experience
become a
scaffold become a scaffold for doing a
lot of this reasoning without literally
pushing against the object and observing
the world push push push in back in
embodied cognition there is an there's a
theory doesn't have that much evidence
yet that that's what we do as young
children we spend a lot of time
literally pushing against the world and
observing how the world pushes back and
that becomes the raw material that we
use to learn it becomes the training
wheels for us to gradually get better
and better at doing object recognition
without having to actually push against
Marilyn Monroe and see how she pushes
back hasn't really been tested or
validated yet lots of interesting work
that could be done in this area great
great Point yes I have a question so
babies when they learn to interact with
the world they can learn from other
people doing the same thing the thing
with robot is usually they have
different
shape and um different like people feel
it differently okay so the knowledge
cannot be from one to
yep what I'm thinking we caner knowled
to each other yeah robot great great
question so you're asking questions
originating from developmental
psychology which we will see many times
throughout this course the psychology of
how mostly humans develop right so this
is child psychology or infant
psychology infants and children are very
social they're looking around and trying
to learn from things in their
environment Cog at the moment is a
non-social uh learner there's no other
teacher in CG's environment it's
literally just interacting directly with
the world what human young humans do is
infinitely more complicated we're also
learning from others and for infants if
they're lucky they're surrounded by
things that look more or less like them
mommy daddy caregiver and so
on however it is a challenge for them
also to learn who or what to learn from
same challenge for machines Cog kind of
looks like us but kind of not if there
were various humans or other robots
around Cog that were moving and not
moving and reacting to Cog who or what
should Cog learn from it it's a
difficult problem difficult for humans
also difficult for machines good point
yes
also good question so what happens if we
put a different Apple in front of COG it
depends on how well it's learned given
the raw material we've talked about so
far we' have not talked about how Cog
learns so maybe yes maybe no maybe for
Cog that Apple which to us is familiar
it's just another Apple it might it
might be a completely new experience for
Cog it's a slightly different shape half
of it is rotten so it doesn't roll so
well who
know have been any experiments mixing
different kind
of yeah absolutely so we're looking at
one we're looking at One sensor modality
at the moment which is it's not even
Vision it's optic flow your question is
about uh what's known as multimodal
learning and you mentioned it as well
what happens if you watch your hand and
you see your hands stop moving and at
the moment you see your hands stop
moving you feel pressure on your
fingertips you're getting information
from two modalities Visual and haptic
information wow holy cow there's a
sudden change in both of those
modalities at exactly the same time that
is a very important uh piece of
knowledge that's a huge Topic in
robotics we're going to see several
robots that that do this they actually
combine different uh sensory information
from different modalities yes I have a
little question how do the how does it
store all the information that it learns
okay like if it store everything and how
can we have enough memory okay yeah
that's a really great question so you
have tons and tons of information
flowing in right now you're sitting in a
chair the haptic information coming from
your legs and your butt and your back
there's tons of it you're probably not
even aware of it is it being stored is
your spinal cord throwing away that
information is it is it actually being
stored somewhere you're just not
consciously aware of it again great
Point very difficult question to
answer in theory Cog should keep
everything because maybe something will
be useful for its learning down the road
but that's a lot of information to hold
on to
can all the information that's coming in
are there cases where you can say I'm
pretty sure I'm not going to need this
later and uh if it's visual information
your eye throws it away before it even
gets to your brain do the peripheral
parts of your body the things that are
far from your
brain do they do s do they do
pre-processing do they filter out
information before it gets to your brain
the answer is it's complicated the
answer is always it's complicated but
it's a it's a great point so again if we
want to make intelligent machines we got
to try and answer this question what
should they hold on to and what if
anything should they throw
away okay all right let's keep going
okay so that's pattern recognition we
can do it in non-embodied way thr throw
a gazillion photographs at a deep
learner and hope for the best or with
Cog it can do it with less information
but there's been some pre-processing
there's a little bit of smarts
beforehand like let's look at a
different building block of intelligence
as I mentioned it's hard to Define
intelligence but my favorite definition
if I even if I was forced to come up
with one is the ability to not let
yourself end up in a dead end in the
future I'm going to do things now to
make sure I don't have limited options
in the
future in order to do that there's the
word future in that statement that means
means you've got to be able to think
ahead somehow more uh uh more simply
known as planning we need to be able to
think ahead somehow planning was
something that the early AIP Pioneers
spent a lot of time working on and
thinking on and eventually they were
able to create an AI that was able to
plan sufficiently ahead in a game of
chess to beat the world champion in a
single game and then a short time later
beat the world chess champion in an
entire match anybody remember when this
happened roughly when this happened in
the 90s it was in the it was in the 990s
so this was the late
90s there was a huge uproar at the time
this is it superhuman AI is here we now
have machines that can beat humans at
chess and chess is the hardest thing
that humans do so everything else is
easy it's the end of the world the
machines are going to rise up there
aren't going to be jobs in 1998
999 machines are going to take over all
the jobs put us all out of work and so
on sound familiar okay all
right this uh so this was IBM's deep
blue deep blue is a non-embodied planner
it's a computer program running in it
was a computer program running inside a
main frame that could not push against
the world and observe how the world
pushes back someone typed uh the chess
positions into deep blue and deep blue
would spit back its move and so on
despite the fact that it's non-embodied
it did pretty well again required huge
amounts of
computation okay here's the embodied
approach to planning um many early
robots were able to plan this is
arguably one of the very first this is
shaky the robot developed in California
during the
1960s it was a Wonder of engineering if
you look
carefully uh you'll notice that most of
the brain of this robot is on board the
robot the actual computer is in the
robot it was carrying most of its smarts
with it a huge engineering feat in the
1960s okay okay so what would shaky do
the researchers would Place shaky at
some random position in the room and as
you can see they would put these big
heavy block uh obstacles at various
positions in the room and then they
would tell shaky get out of the room
this was one of the first escape room uh
experiments done with machines rather
than humans what would shaky do uh it
might be difficult to read this in the
back of the room it's got a laser range
finder here it's got a television camera
it's getting a whole bunch of visual
modality information it's getting a
whole bunch of visual information takes
all that information and uh crunches all
of those visual numbers down to create a
simulation of its environment this is
just some random physics engine picture
that I had lying around this isn't
actually from shaky but this was more or
less what shaky was doing it would make
a very simplified
virtual representation of its
environment then once it had that
environment and its virtual
representation of itself it would start
to plan an escape route through the
obstacles to the door question was it
was it building this model like was this
kind of like pre- de learning like oh
this is very pre- deep learning no
neural networks here at all so it was
actually just taking all the input and
like
doing the processing it was doing the
processing there was a huge complicated
computer program that somebody wrote and
gave to shaki so that shaky could take
all its visual information and construct
a virtual environment and then another
computer program that somebody wrote to
plan a route through the virtual
obstacles okay once it had actually come
up with a root that it was confident
would allow it to Escape the Room shaky
would wake up start
moving one inch and then
stop come to a halt scan its environment
construct a whole new description of its
environment do this whole loop
again for a few
hours another few
hours why was shaky the robot called
shaky the
robot given that description motion
yeah it would literally shake to a halt
and then move and then
move okay knock on wood heaven forbid if
fire broke out in this room is this what
you're going to
do our distant distant ancestors maybe
they didn't do exactly this but if they
did do this and there was a
fire right whatever it is that we're
doing it's not this this is not to pick
on shaky the robot it was definitely
Advance at the time if you if you were
to think about it before I showed you
shaky the robot if I said planning how
do you plan a lot of a lot of people
will often give a description more or
less like this I look at my environment
I build up a model of what the room
looks like I plan my Escape Route and
then I execute it remember last time we
talked about the touring machine it's
it's very familiar and comfortable for
us to think about information coming in
internal processing and then
action if you take that too literally it
can lead you in some directions that
don't really seem like what we
do
um why would it not just keep moving in
One Direction until it like had to turn
and theness okay why does it not keep
moving until it has to turn uh Shake is
a very big machine it's a very very
heavy machine it's a very expensive
machine Shaky's uh repres internal
representation this is a very uh
controversial term representation we'll
come back to it many times in this
course shaki's internal representation
of its environment is never perfect I
think the table is here but it's
actually here so I'm going to go around
it bang not such a good thing for shaky
to do the researchers wanted to make
sure that uh shaky never experienced a
false positive it never came up had a
wrong representation and something
terrible went wrong better to stay
still uh sense think plan act sense
think plan act sense think plan act
safer uh safe for shaky in the sense
that it doesn't hit anything but
eminently unsafe if there's something
that's happening in which you need to
react
quickly it seems like what we're doing
more is like just constantly sort of
adapting to whatever is like coming to
us instead of like making this plan the
whole way absolutely it feels now once
you start to think about shaky the
hackles on your neck go up right you're
like gosh that's not what I'm doing I'm
continuously adapting my internal
representation of the world and planning
an active
simultaneously right one of the nice
things about shaky is it sort of wakes
us up from this torper of thinking like
a turing machine sense think plan act
not such a good thing to do if you're an
embodied agent in the world with literal
skin in the game it matters right if
there's a fire it matters so whatever
we're doing it's probably not this and
we're going to come back shortly to an
example that's the complete opposite of
this regardless of whether this is a
good or not solution here's an embodied
approach to planning here's a
non-embodied approach to planning as
before with pattern recognition you can
see how it's not just about Shaky's body
it's about shaki's invi interaction with
the environment okay we're going to
pause for a moment and we're going to
take a few moments to talk about this
possible building block of intelligence
we could spend several months talking
talking about this topic we're going to
agree right now we're going to take 5
minutes to talk about this
topic Free Will okay deep breath here we
go we all have free will feels obvious I
choose to come to class or not I am free
to choose to come to class or not it's
blindingly
obvious libbit and his colleagues back
in n in the early 90s said wait a second
let's actually test this idea they came
up with this very famous and still very
controversial experiment here's the
cliff notes of the libbit
experiment they instrumented human
subjects with uh EEG which stands
for
Electro
electrograph which picks up electrical
activity um on the surface of the
brain they also wrapped a little uh
sense
around the human subjects index finger
uh which is an EMG uh sensor which
records muscle activity what does EMG
stand
for
musular myogram fancy word for muscle so
EEG EMG yeah so we've got human subjects
wearing a weird looking skull cap uh on
their heads and they've got a little uh
piece of tape wrapped around their
finger these human subjects were then
given the following instructions watch
this clock and you'll see there's a
moving second hand it was actually a a
moving light and at any time you are
free to
choose at the moment you choose that
particular time flex your finger so
watch the clock going going going I
choose to move my finger and I do I'm
watch I'm a human subject I'm watching
the clock d d d it's going around I
choose to move I choose to move I choose
to move I choose to move I choose to
move okay the human subjects were then
asked to report the exact time points at
which they made that decision to freely
move their finger so far so good okay so
what did they see um for they did this
with multiple different people for each
person they saw that at the time points
that those subjects reported that they
chose to move their finger there was a
repeated switch uh change in their EEG
patterns that particular EEG pattern was
unique for different human subjects we
all unique but there was a definite
change there was the same change in EEG
at every moment at which the subjects
chose to move their fingers which liit
and his colleagues interpreted as the
human subjects are not cheating they're
doing what we asked them to do there's
some some repeated change in their brain
signal at exactly those moments that
they reported they also saw that there
was a reliable change in
EMG 200 milliseconds later which looked
good that's more or less the time it
takes for a decision to go from your
brain to your index finger so it looked
like most subjects were obeying the
instructions of the experiment which is
choose and then act or from the
subject's point of view they act at the
moment they choose but that action takes
about a tenth of a second two two ten0
of a second to actually happen so far so
good everything looks perfectly
reasonable turns out that for each of
these subjects there was also a reliable
change in EEG patterns 310 of a second
before the subjects thought that they
had freely chosen chosen to move their
fingers okay now things start to look
problematic we don't have free
will dang
it you ask these subjects they'll say I
chose at six seconds past uh the minute
I chose but actually 5.7 seconds or
whatever it is 3 tens of a second before
that there was a reliable change in
brain activity what I'm telling you is
just what happened in the experiment
what you want to take away from that
experiment or what you hope to salvage
from the results of that experiment are
up to you I am not here to convince you
that you don't have free will you are
free to decide that on your own maybe
the point that of why we're talking
about this is to illustrate a warning
that you're going to hear me repeat over
and over in this class
thinking about thinking is misleading
introspection is dangerous if I asked
you how you plan before I had primed you
with this experiment most of you would
have said uh I look at my world I think
about how to R to get out of this room
as quickly as possible I plan my route
and then I execute it seems
obvious probably not how we do
it so again in all these experiments
uh in all of this work just remember
that thinking about thinking is
misleading okay all right I've kept to
my word five minutes about this if
you're interested in the libid
experiment it's fascinating I would
encourage you to read the libid
experiment first go to the source there
are replications of this experiment some
of them show that there are report
reporting to have shown that their
reliable brain
changes not just 310 of a second but
whole seconds 2 seconds 5 Seconds 10
seconds before you think you made the
decision there are other experiments
that have results where the authors
claim that it invalidates libet's
experiment it there's a huge literature
that's grown up around the libbit
experiment go have a look if you're
interested but it's all tangential for
this course I'll entertain one question
or comment I
was very very much very much so maybe
you freely made the decision but you
just you're not clear about when you
made the decision that's a way to
salvage Free Will from the liit
experiments which is disproved by other
experiments and around and around we go
great Point great Point okay remember
thinking about thinking is misleading
okay so back to embodied cognition we
just saw shaky which planned in a way or
acted in the world in a way that when we
see it being done by machines starts to
convince most of us that whatever we're
doing it's not that so in the 1980s uh
Rod Brooks came up with a completely
different way to control robots than
sense think plan
act sense think plan
act and then around and around we go
Brooks said that's terrible that's not
going to work so let's do something
opposite and this opposite became known
as subsumption
architecture imagine uh imagine that
we've got a simple wheeled vehicle like
the brenberg vehicles that we saw last
time and imagine that uh we've got uh
we've got the coward running inside that
machine when we talked about the coward
last time that was a robot with two
sensors two wheels uh and two
ipsilateral connections so it would turn
away from light imagine we replace the
light sensors with bump sensors which
means that now we have a brenberg
vehicle that's terrified of bumps if it
ever gets bumped on its front right side
it turns to the left immediately yeah
that's what's represented here obstacle
sensors avoid obstacle and send commands
to the motors which cause the robot to
turn away from objects it's terrified of
touching objects so far so good okay
what happens if it's not bumping it's
not touching any objects this vehicle
will just drive around and if it hits an
object then suddenly this part of the
robot's brain takes
over if it's not doing that it's driving
around but it also has two audio sensors
on its front and as long as it's not
touching any obstacles it's paying
attention to its audio sensors and if
there's loud noise over on its left
it'll turn to the right so there's a
second coward circuit inside the robot
and that uh noise that noise fearful
circuit is holding on to the motors it's
controlling the behavior of the robot
until it suddenly bumps into something
and then this circuit
subsumes or takes over control of the
motors there's a more urgent uh reflex
that overrides this less urgent circuit
and we can keep going if uh it's not
touching anything and everything is
relatively quiet then turn towards the
light and we can keep stacking these one
on top of
another what do you get if you were to
take just these three circuits and stack
them in this way put them inside a two-
wheeled robot put that robot in your
living room it's the middle of the day
there's nobody home so it's relatively
quiet there's light filtering in from
the window it's a little bit more light
on one side so the robot draws a gradual
Arc towards the light streaming in from
your window but then bumps the couch and
heads off in another Direction starts to
draw an arc gradually comes back to the
light from the window and keeps going
and going and going what do you
have kind of like a Roomba not only kind
of looks like a Roomba it's exactly the
Roomba so Rod Brooks was the director of
the AI Lab at MIT which I mentioned last
time is the mecca of AI he was at the
top of his game in the 1980s and came up
with this idea which as you start to run
this in your head you realize yeah
you've got a ve you got a machine that's
continuously moving like somebody
mentioned here it's not even building up
a representation of itself other than
there's more light on my left than my
right no physics engine no nothing a
very lightweight machine moving around
uh it might hit objects but it'll then
move away from them it doesn't get stuck
uh on objects wow amazing
why don't we spin off a company let's
call that company IR robot and let's
maybe make vacuum cleaners that's
exactly what Rod did he eventually
resigned his post as the D at the
director of the Cale at MIT which no one
had ever done seems like a crazy thing
to do to go make a vacuum cleaner
company all of his colleagues thought
were laughing at him at the time Who's
Laughing Now okay so again we have an
embodied approach to it's not really
planning but at least embodied Behavior
right this robot is using its body and
the distribution of sensors and its two
wheels in a very efficient elegant way
to actually do useful work like vacuum
your your carpets you don't need a lot
of heavyweight computation you don't
need a million photographs of your
living room if you think about
embodiment carefully
and you design the body and the simple
internal wiring in the right way you get
useful Behavior
right brenberg uh lived long enough to
see the Roomba I don't know if brenberg
felt validated I hope he
did okay all right so just to sort of
sum up we've looked at a few building
blocks of intelligence pattern
recognition planning acting well in the
world and we looked at at non-embodied
and embodied approaches to this so we're
going to uh come back to this term of
embodied cognition this term itself
actually comes from psychology um again
uh people have been studying humans for
a very long time and thinking about how
humans use their body to push against
the world and observe how the world
pushes back and using that raw
information to learn to to survive and
flourish in the real world
roboticists have appropriated this term
to also think about if we're going to
create intelligent machines how might
they use their physical bodies to get
the information they need to survive and
thrive and do whatever we want them to
do in the real world yeah okay you can
say well wait a second even non-embodied
things like Chachi PT have a body they
exist in some server Farm or Farms
somewhere out there they have a physical
body you're desktop has a physical
body your desktop cannot push against
the world and observe how the world
pushes back so embodied cognition
doesn't mean physical cognition it's not
just about physical materials it's about
how a machine or an organism uses and
exploits its physical
materials to survive and thrive in the
world yeah okay so EMB cognition is
really about the way in which you the
way you process information is affected
by the fact that you have a body what do
we mean by the way of processing it or
exploiting the body we do this all the
time and and the Roomba does the same
thing if you have a body that can move
you've got Motors somehow and you can
see the moment you move we've got our
little Lego robot over here that's
conceal see this big object out here the
moment it moves its distance to this
other object changes there's an
immediate repercussion of an action the
the speed of that reaction is useful
there's information in that as
well what are some other ways that we
exploit our physical
bodies when I see my hands stop moving
and I feel feel the pressure and those
two things happen simultaneously that
facilitates or helps me learn that those
two things are actually reporting the
same event they're reporting the fact
that my hand is collided with the board
I'm already I'm exploiting the fact that
I'm receiving multimodal information
Visual and tactile at the same time and
thank you I hear it as well yeah what
other aspects of your phys physical body
do you exploit to learn about the
world you can go anywhere you can go
anywhere okay so I can you opportunity
to like experience different things yeah
absolutely I can use my Motors to
actually create new kinds of Loops I can
go here and then now I'm involved in
another uh sensor motor
coordination that I couldn't do when I
was back here right there's an
opportunity for me to move and start to
generate some new interaction would it
be like you see something far away but
then you can't hear it immediately like
cling it's just like I don't know
determined distance based on absolutely
right things that are far away they're
hard to estimate how far away they are
if they're making noise that helps
absolutely we can like turn our heads
around and like build a I I know you
said don't use representation but we you
can build like a pretty good model of
the room that you're in kind just like
add a glance and then it still exists
yeah absolutely right so I can move my
head I can move my eyes and as I do I
see all of you move but some of you move
faster than others which helps me if I
am building a 3D representation I
immediately learn that you all are
closer to me than you all are I can I if
I close one eye I don't get depth so
it's a little hard to do but the minute
I start to act I get additional flow
information that helps me judge depth
absolutely I exploit self motion to
learn about relative distance what else
there's millions of ways you exploit
your body and its interaction with the
world to learn about the world to get
useful actionable
information like self-preservation
purposes like learning what can like
injure you absolutely right things imp
Mo other things move and they impinge on
me and I can press against things and
feel the rate at which the pressure
starts to increase edge of a table okay
edge of a knife different the rate of
pressure localized pressure on my palm
starts to go up really really fast I'm
going to treat that action reaction as a
yellow card things are about to get very
dangerous very soon um we could use just
kind of everything to determine like our
position in spaces um and that's like
not even I like I I feel like you can
hear if you're outside versus inside
okay yeah e Echo absolutely where am I I
I've I'm just in some situ where where
am I what's here is this a dangerous
situation a useful information uh
environment we can use tools as kind
extensions of our body okay yeah so
we're great point so tools we're talking
about exploiting the body
right you have a body with which to
learn about the world you've got these
things which can do things like
this great okay now something new is
happening I feel a new action reaction
Loop how does that help me I've got this
new information but so what we might we
might be able to like use tools to
explore or use tools to manipulate our
environment in various ways depending on
like the dynamic of the tool we're using
okay we talked about uh Blade Runner
last time right the movie 2001 with the
Apes at the beginning one of them picks
up a bone and starts doing this and
starts to do this with increasing force
and suddenly does this and hits another
bone and that bone
breaks wow okay for that ape it was not
able to break a bone itself but if I do
this suddenly now I can cause
repercussions in the world that weren't
possible with just this what a
discovery other examples of exploitation
feel like smell is underrated smell is
underrated dinner's cooking like in the
oven or gas leakers what probably our
arguably our oldest sensor modality
smell we're primarily visual creatures
these days but yeah absolutely how do
you exploit smell tricky hard to think
about yeah smell if food is rotten or
not something safe to eat or not so safe
okay now maybe action is involved a
little bit
maybe do what the fruit fly does right
you could act as a brenberg vehicle yeah
isn't there stuff with like smell that
activates memories ABS absolutely right
so there's some very subtle things that
are in there memory we're going to focus
we're focusing right now on exploiting
action and reaction in the Here and Now
absolutely we can link what's happening
the action reaction Loop that we're
causing right now with things in the
past but let's stay in the present for
the
moment think about us as bipeds you're
obviously sitting and you're at rest
right now but hopefully for a
considerable period of the day today
you're doing stuff like this what am I
exploiting right
now body has structure and balance that
is well suited to that form of motion
okay yeah my body is well suited to this
type of motion we're going to talk about
legged Locomotion later in this course
but how let's let's think about this for
a moment how is it well suited for doing
stuff like
this
system being able to sense basically
like your intergral horoscope absolutely
so the vestibular sensor your inner ear
another sensor modality
it detects acceleration so if I'm
walking and start to do this my inner
ear tells me and tells my body to do
this yep so keeps me
balanced we are one of the most
efficient land movers on the planet if
you're in relatively good shape you can
go 15 20 miles on half a Big Mac and if
you do the thermodynamics on that it's
incredible there's a theory that our
ancient ancestors when they were hunting
in packs they walked and just walked
their prey into exhaustion it's unproved
it's a theory but what is known is we
are incredibly good long distant
efficient movers we're not the fastest
land movers there are but we can go very
long distances with very little food how
how do we exploit our bodies to make
that happen well most of like by
Locomotion is less walking and more just
falling forward catching yourself
absolutely right so you've been doing
this for decades maybe you've never
actually paid attention to it when you
leave class today and you walk wherever
you're going I want you to actually pay
attention as best you can to all the
muscles in your legs your lower back
your
arms for those of you that have or have
taken a class in this what's what's
happening what's happen happening with
your musculature as you do
this it's your like every every step you
take you're actually adding very little
energy to the system versus a lot of it
is about how like you know how like when
you swing your arms when you walk it's
all about like continuing forward
momentum while like transferring it
absolutely okay so I'm going to walk
again here we
go not a good way to do things that's
not going to last
very long as you mentioned and you'll
feel this after class most of the time
the muscles in your legs are slack the
minute your stance leg the one behind
you leaves the ground becomes what's
called your swing leg and it's called
your swing leg for a reason the moment
your toes leave the ground all the
muscles in your leg go slack and your
leg acts like a pendulum it just swings
swings forward and your momentum will
eventually cause your heel to come into
contact with the ground and your swing
leg will become your stance leg again
the moment that happens you tense the
muscles in your leg and your momentum
carries you over your tensed leg and
each of your legs your individual leg
the muscles are slack for half the time
relax and swing tense and stand relax
and swing tense instead isn't there also
an argument that we like became upright
so that we could like take in a lot more
oxygen okay so why did we become bipeds
in the first place it's a fantastic
question there are very very many
hypotheses for why that happened and you
just mentioned one of them we'll come
back to this discussion when we talk
about bipedal locomotion for our
purposes today we're just illustrating
that if you have a body and you have a
little bit of smarts up here
you can come up with lots of different
ways to exploit your body's interaction
with the world that's embodied cognition
okay I want to make sure we finished
today's lecture we got five minutes left
so bear with me we just talked about
embodied cognition there is a related
idea called situated uh
cognition the definition is a little to
tological the way you process
information is affected by the fact that
you're phys physically situated in the
world for psychologists situatedness
more or less means that you're getting
information from the world in real time
you we are all situated here maybe
you're not actually moving right now
you're not exploiting the physical
forces of your body but you're receiving
sensory information in real time you are
situated in the
world uh a a passive deep learner that's
receiving text that was written by
someone long ago or receiving an image a
photograph that was snapped by somebody
in the in the past it's not situated
it's receiving information that was
generated or processed early earlier
okay so a common example of a machine
that a device that's uh situated but not
embodied are embedded devices so I can't
remember if this room has a smart sensor
or not but if if we all leave this room
and it's empty for a few minutes the
lights will shut off I know that's true
in the Davis Center so that that sensor
in the ceiling is situated it's
detecting motion or lack of motion and
when it detects lack of motion for long
enough it switches off the light but
that intelligent light sensor can't move
around in its environment it can't
exploit its physical Mass related to the
environment it's situated but not
embodied
everybody see the
difference that intelligence sensor is
still physical right it exists in the
world it's got a physical body but not
embodied in the embodied cognition sense
of the word
okay okay um from time to time I'll use
this term of a complete agent agent is
going to be like the term vehicles from
last time from Bren bird agent is a
catchall agent could be a plant a
bacteria uh an animal a human a drone a
robot it's sort of a a container term a
complete agent is an agent that is a
situated agent and an embodied agent you
are all situated and embodied agents you
are all complete agents the intelligent
light sensor is a situated agent but not
an embodied uh
agent uh okay we'll do this very quickly
so complete agents are subject to the
laws of physics how might they how might
complete agents uh exploit that fact we
just saw bipedal Walkers there's an
example of a complete agent that
exploits the fact that your leg is
subject to the law of gravity which
allows it to act as a pendulum gravity
often feels like something we're
fighting against you might not have
thought of this before but you're
actually exploiting it gravity is your
friend not your
enemy we generate sensory stimulation
when we move we've already seen that
example the moment you move in the world
you suddenly get a whole bunch of new
information about the world that is
difficult or impossible to get when
you're standing
still as you move about the world you
also leave a literal and figurative
imprint on the world that you can then
later exploit that imprint on the world
what's an example of us impacting the
world as we move about our daily lives
and then we exploit that fact later or
others exploit the fact that you've left
an imprint like you walk through like a
thing of snow and then you leave a path
other people try and walk right through
there have to walk through the snow
absolutely I always hope that this
lecture is on a snowy day not quite true
I can see some paths out there right
shortest path from building a to build
building B after every fresh snowfall
those paths reappear and your fellow
students are exploiting the fact that
you as a complete agent have left that
impact on the world sorry for rushing I
want to make sure that we finish this
today let's try and fill these four
boxes give me an example of a technology
that is both disembodied and not
situated it's like a computer a computer
a traditional desktop okay how about
situated non-embodied we just saw an
example what was it embedded device an
embedded device an intelligent light
sensor embodied and situated
agents us B uh Cog that we just saw how
about this one embodied but not
situated can you think of an organism or
a machine that is embodied but not
situated a remote control drone a remote
control drone maybe if we assume we
don't use the Drone sensory
information uh you're right though if
the the Drone might be taking pictures
but not using that sensory information
to drive its own action so are yes maybe
a a remote control drone kind of fits in
this
category RC car an RC car also remote
controlled which I don't think has many
sensors or any sensors on it yep it's
capable of action and interacting in the
world but not not not uh recording the
repercussions of its
actions a common one is the first
generation of industrial robots they
were programmed to weld the car door but
they weren't actually sensing the fact
that they were doing it or whether or
not that welding event was successful or
not okay sorry for the speed at the end
there um you have a quiz due tonight
undergrads you're working on assignment
two grads you're working on three or
four have a good rest of your week see
you
Tuesday